             Firetop Mountain Frequently Asked Questions
             -------------------------------------------

Contents:

1) What is 'Firetop Mountain'?

2) What are the differences between FM and the original 'Waving Hands'?

3) Why do we have to use 'Subject: FM Orders'?

4) I sent the server some orders, and it seems to have used them
   twice.   Why did it do this?  Can you help me?

5) The server doesn't understand my orders.  Why not?

6) I seem to have forgotten my password.  Can you help me?

7) What is the auto-nagger?

8) I'm going on vacation - can you save me from the auto-nagger?

9) ****** What to do if you think you've found a bug in the server.

10) I think so-and-so is cheating.  What will you do about it?

11) I've got this great idea for a new spell - will you implement it?

12) How can you afford to run this game for free?

----------------------------------------------------------------------
1) What is 'Firetop Mountain' (FM)?

Firetop Mountain is a play-by-email implementation of Richard Bartle's
'Waving Hands' pencil-and-paper game.

[ There is another implementation of 'Waving Hands' called 'Spellcast'
  - it is written for players using X windows on a network.  Firetop
  Mountain has nothing to do with Spellcast - the authors of each did
  not know the other existed. ]

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2) What are the differences between 'Firetop Mountain' and the
   original 'Waving Hands'?

   - Summon Elemental is two spells in FM
     (Summon Fire Elemental and Summon Ice Elemental)
   - Anti Spell is one gesture longer.
   - There is another gesture for Time Stop.
   - In WH the target of Charm Person/Paralyse is told which hand will
     be affected before choosing the next turns gestures. In FM he is not.
   - In WH Delayed Effect and Permanency latches onto the next suitable
     spell cast. In FM you can choose a later spell. (Though both agree
     that you cannot delay a permanent spell.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3) Why do we have to use 'Subject: FM Orders' instead of just replying
   to email from the server?

There are two reasons for this.  The first is that I only have one
account ('fm@gamerz.net').  This means that the easiest way for me
to run two or more servers (for example, one to try new rules) is to
have players specify which one they want on the subject line.  This
means that players need to be 'Subject aware'.

The second reason is a sort of security.  Because the server only
accepts emails with a certain subject line, and never sends out emails
with that subject line, it is harder for someone nasty to trick the
server into sending itself infinite emails saying 'huh?'.  Nothing is
impossible, but at least this helps protect us.

Now, since you've read this far, I'll tell you a little secret...

The server _will_ actually accept subject lines like this:

 Subject: Re: (whatever)

... so you can reply to messages it sends you.

And it will accept subject lines like this:

 Subject: FM Challenges

IE you can put any valid command on the subject line, after the 'FM'.

However, I can't guarantee that it will always accept these - this is why
it's not written in the rules.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4) I sent the server some orders, and it seems to have used them
   twice.   Why did it do this?  Can you help me?

Sometimes email messages are duplicated in transit.  It's rare, but
the server gets 10-20 emails per hour, so rare things do happen.  It's
is not the server's fault - it's just something that happens to email.

Once it has happened, it may be possible for me to rewind your game so
that you can submit the orders that you meant to.  However, I will
have to make time to do it.  I will have to get your opponent's
permission.  This all takes time.

It's much better to use the TURN command with every GAME command that
you send.  

This completely prevents the problem.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

5) The server isn't doesn't understand my orders - it says some
   strange message about "Can't work out what game you meant" or
   "Can't process ordinary orders with previous command(s)".

The server is not too smart about figuring out your mistakes.  If you
don't get the orders right, it is easily confused.  I'm working on this.

In the meantime, check these two things before asking for help:

  i) Does the order that you send in exactly match one of the order
     examples in the rules?

 ii) Is there extra junk in your orders (your .signature or
     something)?    You need to have only valid orders in your email
     up until the END command. (Some mailers adds HTML tags to your
     mail when you send it. The server does not understand HTML in
     mails, only plain text.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

6) I seem to have forgotten my password.  Can you help me?

I can.  But before you send me email, check again, remembering that
passwords are case-sensitive.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

7) What is the auto-nagger?

The auto-nagger is a program that runs from time to time and tries to
make sure that games are progressing and that no 'dead wood' is left
lying around on the server.  Some of the things it does are:

 - sends reminder messages to mages in games who haven't submitted
   orders for a while.

 - terminates mages in games who haven't submitted orders for ages.

 - retires active mages who haven't played for a while.

 - terminates retired mages who haven't played for ages.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8) I'm going on vacation - can you save me from the auto-nagger?

Send a mail containing the command

  VACATION <Days>

where you specify how many days you will be away.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

9) What to do if you think you've found a bug in the server.

If you think something is wrong with the server...

  *** do not send any more orders for the game in question ***

If you cause another turn to happen, it is unlikely I will be able to
do anything about the problem - I probably won't even try.

Instead, send some email to the Firetop Mountain Janitors
(FM-Janitors@gamerz.net) telling me about it.

Please include as much information as you can:

 1) The report that has a bug in it.  ALL of the report, especially those
    funny numbers after the banner message at the top.
 
    A previous report, before things went wrong, is also nice, if you have it.
 
 2) What part of the report you think is wrong.
 
 3) What you think it should have said (roughly).
  
If there is not really a bug, I will do my best to explain why.

If there is a bug, I can usually rewind the game by one turn, find out
what the problem is, and fix it.  But only if the game has not
progressed another turn since you saw the bug.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

10) I think so-and-so is cheating.  What will you do about it?

The easiest way to cheat at Firetop Mountain is to play two mages from
different email accounts.  The server will not know that you are the
same person, and will give you score accordingly.  Please don't do this.

In the lifetime of Firetop Mountain - more that two years - I have yet
to encounter deliberate cheating.  If I do, I will do all that I can
to banish the perpetrator.  However, this can be just as hard as
stopping them in the first place.  If you think someone is cheating,
let me know, and just don't play with them.  Please don't write to
fm-users about it - that is not the place to deal with it.

(The other obvious way to cheat is to break into gamerz and modify game
 files.  This would be seriously illegal - hardly worth it, don't you
 think?)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

11) I've got this great idea for a new spell - will you implement it?

Possibly.  However, there have been lots of great ideas that I haven't
implemented yet, for many good reasons.  The main reason is that the
game is very nicely balanced and challenging as it is, and I don't
want to spoil this.  So a new idea would have to add a whole new
element to the game to make it worthwhile... without spoiling the
balance.  

If you have a new spell idea, the first thing to do is to tidy it up,
then present it as it would appear in the rules to the fm-users
mailing list.  See what all the other mages think.  If there is a
reasonable amount of support, then it may make it to my 'to do' list.

(At present, the 'to do' list is quite long, because I have a very
 slow ISP - see the next question).

----------------------------------------------------------------------

12) How can you afford to run this game for free?

Actually, this isn't a Frequently Asked Question, except perhaps by me.

The answer is (right now) 'only just'.

Richard Rognlie provides the computer account on 'gamerz.net' for the game
for free.  We all owe him thanks for that!

However, it costs me about $250 per year for the internet access
account that I use to access gamerz.net and run Firetop Mountain (I
have to buy this account because I can't run FM from work!) plus about
$100 in phone calls.

Furthermore, the $250 only gets a very poor connection to the
internet, meaning that I can only provide limited support.  A decent
connection is around $400 per year.

If every Firetop Mountain player sent me just $10 when they decide
they like the game, I would be able to afford to keep running it
easily, and afford a decent connection to be able to make improvements.

(The best way to do this is actually to just fold up a $10 note or its
 equivalent inside a greeting card inside an envelope and send it to
 me.  If someone in the post office steals it, at least you feel good
 for having sent it, and surely not every donation will be stolen, so
 I'll be better off too!)

If I disappear, FM will keep running for a while, then fall over due
to some bug or hiccup on gamerz.net.  And of course, the support and
new features that you get will disappear.  Your contribution will help
keep this going.  I hope you think it's worth it.

Thanks!

Martin Gregory (Firetop Mountain Janitor)

4 Delft Ct.
Modbury Heights.
SA 5092
Australia.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
